Update the getting started guide to use the FlyBy API (#9851)
apollographql/apollo-client: docs/source/get-started.mdx

title: Get started with Apollo Client
---

Hello! 👋 This short tutorial gets you up and running with Apollo Client.

> For an introduction to the entire Apollo platform, [check out **Odyssey**, Apollo's interactive learning platform](https://www.apollographql.com/tutorials/?utm_source=apollo_docs&utm_medium=referral).

## Step 1: Setup

To start this tutorial, do one of the following:

- Create a new React project locally with [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/), or
- Create a new React sandbox on [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/).

## Step 2: Install dependencies

Applications that use Apollo Client require two top-level dependencies:

- `@apollo/client`: This single package contains virtually everything you need to set up Apollo Client. It includes the in-memory cache, local state management, error handling, and a React-based view layer.
- `graphql`: This package provides logic for parsing GraphQL queries.

Run the following command to install both of these packages:

```bash
npm install @apollo/client graphql
```

> > If you are using a React sandbox from CodeSandbox and running into issues, try downgrading your `graphql` package. You can use `npm install graphql@15.8.0` to downgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you're using a React sandbox from CodeSandbox and you encounter a `TypeError`, try downgrading the version of the `graphql` package to `15.8.0` in the Dependencies panel. If you encounter a _different_ error after downgrading, refresh the page.
```

title: Get started with Apollo Client
---

Hello! 👋 This short tutorial gets you up and running with Apollo Client.

> > For an introduction to the entire Apollo platform, [check out **Odyssey**, Apollo's new learning platform](https://odyssey.apollographql.com?utm_source=apollo_docs&utm_medium=referral).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For an introduction to the entire Apollo platform, [check out **Odyssey**, Apollo's interactive learning platform](https://www.apollographql.com/tutorials/?utm_source=apollo_docs&utm_medium=referral).
```

Reviewer: Might as well cut "new" at this point 😄

## Step 1: Setup

> Before starting this tutorial, we recommend you either:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start this tutorial, do one of the following:
```

- Create a new React project locally with [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/), or
- Create a new React sandbox on [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/).

## Step 2: Install dependencies

Applications that use Apollo Client require two top-level dependencies:

- `@apollo/client`: This single package contains virtually everything you need to set up Apollo Client. It includes the in-memory cache, local state management, error handling, and a React-based view layer.
- `graphql`: This package provides logic for parsing GraphQL queries.

Run the following command to install both of these packages:

```bash
npm install @apollo/client graphql
```

> > If you are using a React sandbox and running into issues, try downgrading your `graphql` package. You can use `npm install graphql@15.8.0` to downgrade.

Reviewer: Is this specifically about an issue within Codesandbox, or can it also occur locally? We might need to make this more general if both

> We'll use the [FlyBy API](https://flyby-gateway.herokuapp.com/) from the [Voyage I: Federation from Day One](https://www.apollographql.com/tutorials/voyage-part1/) Odyssey course as our GraphQL server for this example. The Flyby API provides a list of intergalactic locations and details about those locations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our example application will use the [FlyBy GraphQL API](https://flyby-gateway.herokuapp.com/) from the [Voyage tutorial series](https://www.apollographql.com/tutorials/voyage-part1/) in Apollo Odyssey. This API provides a list of intergalactic travel locations and details about those locations 👽
```

Reviewer: (alien emoji very optional 😄 )

## Step 3: Initialize `ApolloClient`

With our dependencies set up, we can now initialize an `ApolloClient` instance.

> In `index.js`, let's first import the things we need from `@apollo/client`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `index.js`, let's first import the symbols we need from `@apollo/client`:
```

Reviewer: Avoid "things" wherever possible

```js title="index.js"
import { ApolloClient, InMemoryCache, ApolloProvider, useQuery, gql } from '@apollo/client';
```

Next we'll initialize `ApolloClient`, passing its constructor a configuration object with the `uri` and `cache` fields:

```js title="index.js"
const client = new ApolloClient({
  uri: 'https://flyby-gateway.herokuapp.com/',
  cache: new InMemoryCache(),
});
```

> More on the `uri` and `cache` fields below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Despite flying in the face of the style guide, I personally don't think this particular list requires an intro sentence because it's directly addressing the immediately preceding codeblock. But feel free to keep if you disagree!

        locations {
          id
          name
          description
          photo
        }
      }
    `,
  })
  .then((result) => console.log(result));
```

Run this code, open your console, and inspect the result object. You should see a `data` property with `locations` attached, along with some other properties like `loading` and `networkStatus`. Nice!

Although executing GraphQL operations directly like this can be useful, Apollo Client really shines when it's integrated with a view layer like React. You can bind queries to your UI and update it automatically as new data is fetched.

Let's look at how that works!

## Step 4: Connect your client to React

You connect Apollo Client to React with the `ApolloProvider` component. Similar to React's [`Context.Provider`](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html#contextprovider), `ApolloProvider` wraps your React app and places Apollo Client on the context, enabling you to access it from anywhere in your component tree.

In `index.js`, let's wrap our React app with an `ApolloProvider`. We suggest putting the `ApolloProvider` somewhere high in your app, above any component that might need to access GraphQL data.

> ```jsx title="index.js" {22-24}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```jsx title="index.js" {15-17}
```

Reviewer: Highlighted lines got moved a bit

Although executing GraphQL operations directly like this can be useful, Apollo Client really shines when it's integrated with a view layer like React. You can bind queries to your UI and update it automatically as new data is fetched.

Let's look at how that works!

## Step 4: Connect your client to React

You connect Apollo Client to React with the `ApolloProvider` component. Similar to React's [`Context.Provider`](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html#contextprovider), `ApolloProvider` wraps your React app and places Apollo Client on the context, enabling you to access it from anywhere in your component tree.

In `index.js`, let's wrap our React app with an `ApolloProvider`. We suggest putting the `ApolloProvider` somewhere high in your app, above any component that might need to access GraphQL data.

```jsx title="index.js" {22-24}
import { React } from 'react';
import * as ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client';
import { ApolloClient, InMemoryCache, ApolloProvider, useQuery, gql } from '@apollo/client';

const client = new ApolloClient({
  uri: 'https://flyby-gateway.herokuapp.com/',
  cache: new InMemoryCache(),
});

> function App() {

Reviewer: In both my CRA app and the default codesandbox React template, `App` is pulled in from `App.js` as opposed to defined directly in `index.js`. I reckon we should conform to the same pattern here.

Reviewer: In fact yes, let's do that and move all of the actual query logic and the component structure into `App.js`

client
  .query({
    query: gql`

>       query getLocations {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      query GetLocations {
```

Reviewer: PascalCase for operation names

  );
}

// Supported in React 18+
const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));

root.render(
  <ApolloProvider client={client}>
    <App />
  </ApolloProvider>,
);
```

## Step 5: Fetch data with `useQuery`

After your `ApolloProvider` is hooked up, you can start requesting data with `useQuery`. The `useQuery` hook is a [React hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html) that shares GraphQL data with your UI.

Still in `index.js`, let's first define the query we want to execute by wrapping it in the `gql` template literal:

```js title="index.js"
const GET_LOCATIONS = gql`

>   query getLocations {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  query GetLocations {
```

    locations {
      id
      name
      description
      photo
    }
  }
`;
```

Next, let's define a component named `DisplayLocations` that executes our `GET_LOCATIONS` query with the `useQuery` hook:

```js title="index.js" {2}
function DisplayLocations() {
  const { loading, error, data } = useQuery(GET_LOCATIONS);

  if (loading) return <p>Loading...</p>;
  if (error) return <p>Error :(</p>;

  return data.locations.map(({ id, name, description, photo }) => (
    <div key={id}>
      <h3>{name}</h3>
      <img width="400" height="250" alt="location-reference" src={`${photo}`} />
      <br />
      <b>About this location:</b>
      <p>{description}</p>
      <br />
    </div>
  ));
}
```

Whenever this component renders, the `useQuery` hook automatically executes our query and returns a result object containing `loading`, `error`, and `data` properties:

> - Apollo Client tracks a query's error and loading states for you, reflected in the `loading` and `error` properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Apollo Client automatically tracks a query's loading and error states, which are reflected in the `loading` and `error` properties.
```

Reviewer: Agree this sentence needed a tweak, realized we should probably list "loading" and "error" in the same order in both places

- When the result of your query comes back, it's attached to the `data` property.

Finally, we'll add `DisplayLocations` to our existing component tree:

```jsx title="index.js" {5}
function App() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h2>My first Apollo app 🚀</h2>
      <DisplayLocations />
    </div>
  );
}
```

> When your app reloads, you should briefly see a loading indicator, followed by a list of locations and details about those locations! If you don't, you can compare your code against the [completed app on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/get-started-apollo-client-demo-bert8s?file=/src/index.js).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your app reloads, you should briefly see a loading indicator, followed by a list of locations and details about those locations! If you don't, you can compare your code against the [completed app on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/get-started-apollo-client-demo-bert8s).
```
